W-22433617 Update flex-gateway-llm-proxy.adoc (#1059)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.12/modules/ROOT/pages/flex-gateway-llm-proxy-semantic-service.adoc

= Configuring a Semantic Service
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> A semantic service compares incoming request to the defined prompt topic utterances and sends the request to the route that best matches it. The semantic service also compares the request to deny list topic utterances to block certain requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A semantic service compares incoming requests to the defined prompt topic utterances and sends the request to the route that best matches it. The semantic service also compares the request to the deny list topic utterances to block certain requests.
```

* <<configure-a-basic-scale-semantic-service, Basic Scale>>: For simple semantic routing and blocking. Basic scale semantic services support up to 6 prompt topics and 10 utterances per prompt topic.

[[configure-an-advanced-scale-semantic-service]]
== Configure an Advanced Scale Semantic Service

. From API Manager, click *Semantic Service Configuration*.
. Click *+ Create a Semantic Service Configuration*.
. Select *Advanced Scale*.
. Configure the semantic service parameters:
** *Service label*: Label to identify the new service.
** *Embedding Service Provider*: The provider of the embedding model. *OpenAI* or *Hugging Face*.
** *URL*: The URL of the embedding service.
** *Model*: The embedding model to use.
** *Auth key*: The API authentication key for the embedding service.
. Click *Vector connection*.
. Select a *Vector Database Provider* from these options:
** *Quadrant*
** *Pinecone*
** *Azure AI Search*
. Configure the parameters to connect your database.
. Create prompt topics:
.. Click *Create prompt topics*.
.. Define a *Prompt topic name*.

> .. Define a *Prompt utterances* or click *Upload utterances* to upload a plain text file containing your prompt utterances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Define prompt utterances or click *Upload utterances* to upload a plain text file containing your prompt utterances.
```

.. Create as many prompt topics as neccesary. You can also create new prompt topics later by editing the semantic service.
+

> NOTE: To deny users from asking about certain subject, create prompt topics for the subjects and apply them as deny list topics when configuring your LLM Proxy.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: To deny users from asking about certain subjects, create prompt topics for the subjects and apply them as deny list topics when configuring your LLM Proxy.  
```

. Click *+ Create a Semantic Service Configuration*.
. Select *Basic Scale*.
. Configure the semantic service parameters:
** *Service label*: Label to identify the new service.
** *Embedding Service Provider*: The provider of the embedding model. *OpenAI* or *Hugging Face*.
** *URL*: The URL of the embedding service.
** *Model*: The embedding model to use.
** *Auth key*: The API authentication key for the embedding service.
. Click *Deploy*.

[[basic-scale-semantic-service-routing-limits]]
=== Basic Scale Semantic Service Routing Limits

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
| Limit | Value
| Prompt topics (across all routes of an LLM Proxy) | 6
| Utterances per prompt topic | 10
| Deny list topics | 6
| Utterances per deny list topic | 10
| Maximum characters per utterance | 500
|===

== Edit a Semantic Service

To edit a semantic service:

. From *Semantic Service Setup*, click the three-dots menu (image:three-dots-menu.png[3%,3%]) of the semantic service you want to edit.
. Make the necessary edits.
. Click *Redeploy*.

== Redownload Vector Script

If creating new prompt topics, it is necessary to redownload and run the vector script in your database again:

> . From *Semantic Service Configuration*, click the three-dots menu (image:three-dots-menu.png[3%,3%]) of the advanced scale semantic service whose script you want to download.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Download the script for the advanced scale semantic service by clicking the three-dots menu (image:three-dots-menu.png[3%,3%]) from *Semantic Service Configuration*.
```
